The back is an intricate structure of bones,
muscles, and other tissues
that forms the posterior part of the body’s trunk,
from the neck to the hipbones and pelvis.
The bones that form the core of the back structure
are called the spine
or spinal column.
This stack of more than 30 bones,
vertebrae,
supports the upper body’s weight
and houses the spinal cord.
The nervous system structure
that carries signals which control
the body’s movements
and convey its sensations.
Each of the bones that make up
the spinal column
has a hole in the center,
and when these bones are stacked,
it creates a channel that surrounds
and protects the spinal cord.
The bones or vertebrae
that make up the spinal column
are not stacked directly on top of each other.
There are spaces between them
that are maintained by round,
spongy pads of cartilage
called intervertebral disks.
Each intervertebral disk
is made up of two components,
the annulus fibrosus
and the nucleus pulposus.
The annulus fibrosus
is the tough outer portion of the disk.
The nucleus pulposus
is the inner gel material
surrounded by the annulus fibrosus.
These disks and the space
between the bones that they fill,
give the lower back flexibility.
The disks act much like
shock absorbers throughout the spinal column
to cushion the bones as the body moves.
Bands of tissues called ligaments and tendons
hold the vertebrae in place
and attach the muscles of the back
to the spinal column.
Small nerves called roots
enter and emerge from the spinal cord
through spaces between the vertebrae.
The spine has four regions.
Starting from the top,
there are seven cervical,
or neck, vertebrae,
labeled C1 through C7,
twelve thoracic or upper back vertebrae,
labeled T1 through T12,
five lumbar vertebrae,
designated L1 through L5 in the lower back,
and finally, the sacrum and coccyx,
a group of bones fused together at the base of the spine.
Intervertebral disks are located
between each vertebra
from C2 through S1.